---
title: "Kobe Bryant on Shaq Drama & Raising Four Daughters"
date: 2019-09
source: "Jimmy Kimmel Live"
type: video_interview
url: "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t8eoIKiDTw8"
extraction_method: yt-dlp_auto_sub
transcript_quality: auto-generated
---

&gt;&gt; Jimmy: HOW YOU DOIN'? &gt;&gt; I'M GOOD. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: GOOD TO SEE YOU. &gt;&gt; YOU TOO, MAN. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: DO YOU HEAR THAT A LOT, RUNNING AROUND IN TRAFFIC AND WHATNOT? &gt;&gt; I DO. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: COULD BE A LOT WORSE. &gt;&gt; COULD AND LOT WORSE. THAT'S FOR SURE. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: EVERYTHING ALL RIGHT? &gt;&gt; EVERYTHING'S FINE. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: YOU HAVE ANOTHER DAUGHTER. SHE'S TWO MONTHS OLD? &gt;&gt; SHE'S TWO MONTHS OLD. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: YOUICA CALL HER KOKO? &gt;&gt; THAT'S TRUE. KOKO. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: HER MIDDLE NAME IS KOBE. THAT WASN'T YOUR IDEA, RIGHT? &gt;&gt; SHE CAME TO ME, THINKING I'M THINKING OF NAME HER KOBE. OKAY. THEN TIME GOES ON, AND SHE'S LIKE, YOU KNOW, I THINK I'M GOING TO CHANGE HER MIDDLE TIME. I'M LIKE, WHOA, WHOA, WHOA, WHOA. I DIDN'T THINK YOU WERE TOO HOT ABOUT IT. YOU CAN'T CHANGE IT NOW, DUDE. YOU CAN'T GIVE ME A GIFT AND THEN TAKE A BACK, LIKE, YOU KNOW? &gt;&gt; Jimmy: THAT'S RIGHT. FOUR DAUGHTERS NOW. &gt;&gt; YEAH. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: I THINK IT'S GOOD THAT YOU HAVE DAUGHTERS. I FEEL LIKE IF YOU HAD A SON IN SPORTS IT MIGHT BE TOO MUCH FOR THAT KID. &gt;&gt; YEAH. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: I DO. &gt;&gt; YEAH, YEAH, MAYBE, BUT YOU KNOW, I LOVE HAVING GIRLS. THEY'RE AWESOME, MAN. HAVING A BOY, MY WIFE WANTS A BOY MORE SO THAN I DO. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: OH, INTERESTING. &gt;&gt; I LOVE MY GIRLS. YOU KNOW, SHE KEEPS SAYING STOP SPEAKING IT INTO EXISTENCE. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: UH-HUH. &gt;&gt; I LOVE MY GIRLS. STOP STAYIN' THAT. YOU WANT A BOY! &gt;&gt; Jimmy: WHAT IS KOBE BRYANT LIKE IN THE DELIVERY ROOM? DO YOU BRING THE MAMBA MENTALITY TO THAT SCENARIO? &gt;&gt; MAN, WHAT? IF I EVER TRIED TO SAY SOMETHING TO MY WIFE WHEN SHE WAS GIVING BIRTH, MAN, SHE'D MAMMA MENTALITY MY ASS UPSIDE MY HID. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: YOUR OLDEST DAUGHTER IS LIKE 16 AND DRIVING. &gt;&gt; SHE IS. SHE'S LIKE A SEASONED VET. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: HOW? &gt;&gt; SHE'S VERY CALM, SHE DOESN'T WANT TO LISTEN TO ANY MUSIC. SHE'S A VERY SAFE AND CAUTIOUS DRIVER. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: IS THAT JUST WHEN YOU'RE IN THE CAR? &gt;&gt; NO, ALWAYS, SHE'S VERY CALM, COOL AND COLLECTED. I'M VERY PROUD OF HER. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: THE NEXT ONE'S GOING TO BE A MANIAC BEHIND THE WHEEL. &gt;&gt; I ALWAYS SAY, YOU LOOK AT THE ELDEST DAUGHTER. SHE'S ALWAYS THE CALM, RESPONSIBLE, THOUGHTFUL ONE, YOU KNOW? AND THEN THE SECOND SISTER'S LIKE A TORNADO, YOU KNOW, LIKE ELSA AND ANNA. YOU KNOW, YEAH, SHE CAN FREEZE THE CITY AND ALL THAT, BUT SHE'S RESPONSIBLE ABOUT IT, THEN THERE'S ANNA WHO JUST JUMPS OFF A CLIFF AND THAT STUFF. THAT'S CERTAINLY OUR HOUSE. BUT THEN WE HAVE TWO OTHER ONES. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: YOUR SECOND OLDEST IS GIANNA. &gt;&gt; YEAH. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: SO YOU ALMOST GAVE HER THE NAME ANNA. HUNDRE YOU HAD A PLAYOFF GAME AGAINST THE SUNS, TIED THE GAME, WENT INTO OVERTIME AND SCORED LIKE SIX SECONDS LEFT. THEN YOU RACED TO THE DELIVERY ROOM AND LATE OTHER THAT EVENING, LIKE EARLY IN THE MORNING YOUR DAUGHTER WAS BORN. &gt;&gt; THAT SOUNDS ABOUT RIGHT. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: OKAY. &gt;&gt; IT WAS EITHER THAT NIGHT OR THE DAY AFTER. I CAN'T REMEMBER EXACTLY. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: DID YOU KNOW YOUR WIFE WAS IN LABOR WHILE YOU WERE PLAYING THE GAME? &gt;&gt; NO, IT DIDN'T HAPPEN DURING THE GAME. IT HAPPENED AFTER. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: SO THERE'S NO THOUGHT LIKE MAYBE I'LL MISS THIS ONE AND HEAD HOME? &gt;&gt; INSTEAD OF SENDING THE GAME TO OVERTIME? &gt;&gt; Jimmy: MAYBE OVERTIME'S NOT A GOOD IDEA IN THE LONG RUN? &gt;&gt; YEAH. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: YEAH. &gt;&gt; NO, FORTUNATELY, THAT WASN'T THE SITUATION. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: YOU WOULD HAVE PLAYED TEN OVERTIMES IF IT CAME DOWN TO IT, WOULD YOU NOT? &gt;&gt; NO. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: YOU WOULD NOT. [ APPLAUSE ] &gt;&gt; NOPE! &gt;&gt; Jimmy: YOU'RE NO DUMMY. &gt;&gt; HEY, MENTALITY UPSIDE MY HEAD. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: YOU DID AN INTERVIEW, AND YOU WERE TALKING, KIND OF GOOFIN' AROUND, BUT YOU WERE TALKING ABOUT SHAQ, AND WERE YOU SAYING, YOU KNOW, TALKING ABOUT SHAQ WHO WAS, YOU KNOW, NOT QUITE AS DRIVEN AS, NO ONE'S AS DRIVEN AS YOU ARE, BUT YOU INSINUATED IF SHAQ KEPT HIMSELF IN BETTER SHAPE YOU WOULD HAVE EVEN MORE RINGS THAN YOU HAVE ALREADY. &gt;&gt; RIGHT. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: AND SHAQ TOOK, DID HE TAKE OFFENSE TO THAT? &gt;&gt; YEAH, I THINK HE DID A LITTLE BIT. BUT HERE'S THE THING, YOU KNOW, LIKE IT WAS REALLY A COMPLIMENT. PEOPLE MISSED THE WHOLE FIRST HALF OF THAT IN WHICH I SAID HE WAS THE MOST DOMINANT PLAYER I'VE EVER SEEN, AND I FELT LIKE HE COULD HAVE BEEN THE GREATEST OF ALL TIME. J &gt;&gt; Jimmy: MM-HM. &gt;&gt; PEOPLE KIND OF MISSED THAT PART AND CAUGHT ONTO THE LAZY PART. WE WEREN'T GOING TO WIN 12 RINGS OR PLAY OUR ENTIRE CAREERS TOGETHER. BUT IT'S ALL GOOD, MAN. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: WHAT HAPPENS AFTER THAT? DO YOU GO OH, BOY, I BETTER CALL HIM? OR DOES HE CALL YOU? HOW DOES IT WORK? &gt;&gt; NO, I REACH OUT TO HIM. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: YOU REACH OUT TO HIM. &gt;&gt; HE'S MORE SENSITIVE THAN I AM. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: DID YOU TEXT HIM? &gt;&gt; I DID, I DID. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: WHAT DO YOU SAY IN THE TEXT, HEY, HA, HA, HA? &gt;&gt; HEY, YOU KNOW. [ APPLAUSE ] I SAID LISTEN, NO HARD FEELIN'S? I LOVE YOU. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: NO HARD FEELIN'S. YOU'RE THE ONE WHO INSULTED HIM. &gt;&gt; DID I, THOUGH? &gt;&gt; Jimmy: I DON'T KNOW. &gt;&gt; YEAH. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: YOU KNOW YOU SHOULD HAVE TEXTED "YOU UP?" &gt;&gt; I'M GOING TO WORK OUT, YOU WANT TO JOIN ME? I DID SAY I'LL BE TUNING IN TO THE SON PLAYING AT UCLA THIS YEAR. YOU BETTER SHOOT THE BALL 30 TIMES. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: HE POSTED PHOTOGRAPHS OF HIMSELF DUNKING ON 12 GUYS. DOES THIS LOOK LAZY? &gt;&gt; DOMINANT. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: THINGS ARE GOOD. THINGS ARE OKAY BETWEEN YOU AGAIN. &gt;&gt; YEAH, YEAH, YEAH. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: DO YOU HANG OUT TOGETHER? &gt;&gt; I DON'T HAVE TIME. NEITHER DOES HE. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: TACO TUESDAY, HAVE YOU BEEN TO TACO TUESDAY? &gt;&gt; I HAVE NOT. I'VE BEEN LIVING IN L.A. FOR LIKE 20 YEARS AND MARRIED TO A LATINA. SO. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: YOU HAVE YOUR OWN TACO TUESDAY. LeBRON LOSES HIS MIND OVER EVERY WEEK. &gt;&gt; EVERYBODY HAS THEIR THING, BRO. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: I'M FINE WITH TACO TUESDAY. &gt;&gt; THAT'S GOING TO GET HIM GOING, IT GETS HIM GOING. IT'S AWESOME. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: DO YOU TAKE ANY ROLE IN ENCOURAGING GUYS LIKE OH, LeBRON, YOU KNOW, LAKERS' FREE AGENTS TO COME TO LOS ANGELES, OTHER THAN MAYBE A TWEET OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT? &gt;&gt; NO, NO. I STAY AWAY FROM IT. I'M REAL CLOSE WITH ROB, OBVIOUSLY. WE'LL TALK OFTEN JUST AS A SOUNDING BOARD FOR HIM. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: WOULD YOU BE ALLOWED TO DO THAT, OR WOULD ROB GET FINED IF YOU WERE TO DO SOMETHING LIKE THAT. &gt;&gt; NO, COI COULD DO IT. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: YOU COULD ACTUALLY REACH OUT TO -- &gt;&gt; I COULD, BUT I WON'T. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: YOU WON'T. WHY WON'T YOU? &gt;&gt; I STAY AWAY FROM THAT STUFF, MAN. LIKE ROB IS HE'S MORE THAN CAPABLE OF HANDLING THE JOB AND ALL THE PRESSURE THAT COMES ALONG WITH THAT. I'M QUICK TO TELL HIM, LISTEN, MAN, YOU'RE MY GUY, BUT YOU DIDN'T GET OUT ON THE COURT AND SCORE 40 POINTS FOR ME EITHER. SO I'M NOT GOING TO DO YOUR JOB FOR YOU. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: DID HE SAY I WOULD HAVE IF I COULD DO THAT? &gt;&gt; NO, MAN. LIKE WE HAVE A GREAT RELATIONSHIP. SO WE'LL TALK AND STUFF AND JUST AS FRIENDS, BUT NOTHING, NOTHING SERIOUS. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: WERE YOU SURPRISED THAT KAWHI LEONARD CHOSE THE CLIPPERS OVER THE LAKERS? &gt;&gt; SURE. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: YOU WERE. &gt;&gt; SURE. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: YOU THOUGHT HE WAS GOING TO GO TO THE LAKERS. &gt;&gt; SURE. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: WHO WILL GO FURTHER IN THE PLAYOFFS, THE LEAAKERS OR T CLIPPERS THIS SEASON? &gt;&gt; IT DEPENDS, AND I SAY THAT NOT TO BE KIND OF CHEEKY ABOUT IT, BUT INJURIES HAS PLAYED SUCH A HUGE PART. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: LET'S SAY BOTH TEAMS ARE BEAUTIFULLY HEALTHY FROM HERE ON OUT. &gt;&gt; A LOT OF IFs. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: A LOT OF IFs. COUSINS GOT HURT. &gt;&gt; IS HOUSTON HEALTHY AS WELL. GOLDEN STATE HEALTHY AS WELL? WE'RE DOING EVERYBODY'S HEALTHY KIND OF THING? &gt;&gt; Jimmy: THAT L.A. RIVALRY. &gt;&gt; WHAT IF THEY'RE PLAYING AN INJURED HOUSTON ROCKETS TEAM AND JAMES CAN'T PLAY? OR WHAT IF THEY'RE PLAYING AN INJURED GOLDEN STATE TEAM. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: CAN'T YOU JUST PLAY ALONG WITH MY GAME? &gt;&gt; NO, NO, I CANNOT. I CANNOT. THERE'S TOO MANY VARIABLES, MY MAN. I'VE GOT TO THINK THROUGH THIS THING. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: THINKING IS OVERRATED. WEARY GOING TO TAKE A BREAK. WHEN WE COME BACK, KOBE HAS A BOOK. AND NOT ONLY IS IT GOOD, IT FEELS GOOD, TOO. IT'S CALLED "LEGACY AND THE QUEEN". WE'LL BE RIGHT BACK WITH KOBE BRYANT. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: LOOK WHO'S HERE. KOBE BRYANT IS HERE WITH US. KOBE'S GOT A BOOK. IS THIS A YOUNG ADULT BOOK WOULD YOU SAY? &gt;&gt; MIDDLE GRADE. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: MIDDLE GRADE BOOK. IT IS CALLED "LEGACY AND THE QUEEN." AND IT'S NICE AND KIND OF FURRY. &gt;&gt; YEAH. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: WHY IS IT FURRY. &gt;&gt; IT KIND OF SIMULATES A TENNIS BALL A LITTLE BIT. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: IT IS ABOUT TENNIS. YOU'VE BECOME VERY ABOUT TENNIS LATELY. &gt;&gt; I DON'T PLAY WELL. I ENJOY PLAYING. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: IT LOOKED PRETTY GOOD TO ME, BUT WHAT DO I KNOW? YOU DON'T CONSIDER YOURSELF A GOOD TENNIS PLAYER. &gt;&gt; NO, I ENJOY PLAYING, I'M GETTING BETTER. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: YOU CAN ENJOY PLAYING SOMETHING, THAT'S INTERESTING. &gt;&gt; IT'S THE PROCESS OF GETTING BETTER AT SOMETHING. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: WHAT ABOUT LOSING? DO YOU PLAY COMPETITIVELY WITH PEOPLE? &gt;&gt; ME AND ROB USED TO PLAY ALL THE TIME. AND HE GOT BUSY WITH THE GM THING. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: AND WHO USED TO WIN THOSE THINGS? &gt;&gt; HE WOULD WIN. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: YOU WILL EVENTUALLY BEAT HIM AND CRUSH HIM AND BE ON THE SENIOR TOUR OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT. &gt;&gt; IT'S INEVITABLE. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: I NOTICED SOMETHING INTERESTING ABOUT THIS BOOK. CAN WE LOWER THE LIGHTS FOR A SECOND? BECAUSE THERE ARE SECRET, ARE THESE SATANIC MESSAGES? WHAT'S GOING ON HERE? &gt;&gt; WELL, IT'S IMPORTANT TO THE TO THE STORY. BUT IT'S IMPORTANT TO HAVE THESE KIND OF EASTER EGGS THAT YOU FIND IN THE BOOK. BECAUSE IT'S IMPORTANT FOR KIDS TO HAVE HIGH-QUALITY PRODUCT. A LOT OF TIMES WE DO BOOKS FOR CHILDREN, BUT THEY'RE NOT VERY WELL DONE. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: WHAT DOES THE PUBLISHER SAY WHEN YOU SAY I WANT THERE TO BE INVISIBLE LANGUAGE INSIDE AND THE COVER OF THE BOOK TO FEEL LIKE A TENNIS BALL? &gt;&gt; WELL, THEY DON'T SAY ANYTHING, PAUSBECAUSE I'M THE PUBLISHER. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: OH, I SEE. [CHEERS AND APPLAUSE] &gt;&gt; BUT YOU'RE RIGHT. GENERALLY PUBLISHING HOUSING WON'T MAKE A BOOK THAT HIGH QUALITY, IT'S EX-FEBPENSIVE TO . BUT YOU PICK THIS BOOK UP. IT'S BEEN CARED FOR. IT FEELS LIKE WE MATTER. HERE THE'S BOOK WE PUT A LOT OF WORK INTO. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: WHAT'S THE PREMISE OF THE BOOK? &gt;&gt; SHE'S GOT TO PLAY TENNIS TO SAVE HER FAMILY. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: IT'S A TRUE STORY. &gt;&gt; A LOT OF IT DEALS WITH EMOTION. AND WHAT I WANTED TO TEACH KIDS IS HOW DO YOU DEAL WITH ANXIETY AND PRESSURE. AND NOTHING DOES THAT MORE SO THAN TENNIS, BECAUSE IT'S AN ISOLATED EVENT WHERE YOU HAVE TO DEAL WITH THINGS YOURSELF. AND YOU'RE FACING AN OPPONENT ACROSS THE NET THAT'S CHALLENGING YOU, SO IT'S VERY IMPORTANT TO GET THOSE MESSAGES ACROSS AND CREATE CHARACTER WITH OUR DAUGHTERS. WE DON'T SEE TOO MANY CHARACTERS IN MLITERATURE THAT ARE MIXED. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: IN TENNIS, THERE'S THIS ISOLATION, EVEN THOUGH IT IS A ONE ON ONE SPORT. UNLIKE BASKETBALL, YOU'RE GUARDING THE GUY, YOU'RE RIGHT THERE WITH THE GUY, YOU HAVE THIS COMMUNICATION. YOU HAVE THIS DISTANCE BETWEEN YOU WHICH CAN BE VERY LONELY IN A WAY. &gt;&gt; IT IS, AND YOU'RE DEALING WITH YOUR INNER CHALLENGES. JUST YOU. THERE'S NO TEAMMATES TO GIVE YOU SUPPORT POR ENCOURAGEMENT. IT'S JUST YOU. YOU SEE A LOT OF TENNIS PLAYERS TALKING TO THEMSELVES OR SMACKING THEIR LEG IN FRUSTRATION. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: WHO'S YOUR FAVORITE PLAYER? &gt;&gt; IT'S HARD TO GO PAST THE BIG THREE. FEDERER AND JOKE AND NADAL. I MET CHRIS EVERETT, THAT WAS AWESOME. CHRIS EVERETT'S A BAD-ASS. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: YOU'RE TOO YOUNG TO REALLY HAVE SEEN CHRIS EVERETT IN ACTION. &gt;&gt; AM I, THOUGH? I'LL TAKE IT. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: I THINK SO. &gt;&gt; I'LL TAKE T IT, AND OBVIOUSL SERENA'S THE BEST OF ALL TIME. SHE'S THE GREATEST. AND I JUST, AS TENNIS PLAYER, BUT AS A GENERAL ATHLETE. I HAD A CHANCE TO WATCH COCO PLAY AND NAOMI. I'M A BIG NAOMI FAN AND LOVE EVERYTHING SHE'S DOING. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: YOU'RE REALLY GETTING INTO TENNIS. &gt;&gt; YEAH. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: I WONDER, IF YOU COULD PICK UP ANOTHER SPORT TO PLAY PROFESSIONALLY, WOULD THAT BE THE SPORT? &gt;&gt; YEAH, PROBABLY, THEN I DON'T HAVE TO WATCH MY WORDS WHEN I'M TALKING ABOUT FORMER TEAMMATES AND STUFF LIKE THAT, BECAUSE I AIN'T GOT NONE. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: YOU'D HAVE NOBODY TO BLAME BUT YOURSELF. BUT YOU'D PROBABLY TEAR UP A FEW COACHES ALONG THE WAY. &gt;&gt; BEAT THE HELL OUT OF A FEW RACKETS MAYBE. &gt;&gt; Jimmy: IT'S VERY GOOD TO SEE YOU. THIS IS KOBE'S BOOK. IT'S CALLED "LEGACY AND THE QUEEN." BUY IT FOR YOUR KIDS AND SEASON TWO OF YOUR PODCAST "THE PUNIES" IS AVAILABLE FOR LISTENING. KOBE BRYANT, EVERYBODY. WE'LL BE RIGHT BACK WITH MILES BROWN.
