---
title: "All The Smoke Podcast Episode 11"
date: 2020-01
source: "Showtime Basketball"
type: video_interview
url: "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3R3KIyEgCgc"
extraction_method: yt-dlp_auto_sub
transcript_quality: auto-generated
---

All these years we've been building, building, building. When that opportunity do come my way, that's when the magic happens. What a kill. Growing up in the Edelman household was crazy. Depression, anxiety. Those were things I had. I had haters before. I've just gotten more now. Legalizing sports gambling. Might as well legalize cocaine and crystal meth. So many people wanted Sunny dead. Question is, who got to him first? This is the hard work part. This the part they don't see. [music] We help people understand football. Holy goodness. What a fight. All [music] right, man. So, [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] Normally, we shoot in Santa Monica or in New York, but today we made a special [music] road trip to go see the one and only. One and only. Yeah. I mean, we had to drive an hour and a half in traffic to see Cole. It don't matter. We had [music] to drive backwards. I was going to get some get to his house and ask for these damn shoes one way or another. That's the first thing you going to do. Cole, [music] how you doing? Look, man, I've been looking is the shoes called the uh the undefeated pack. We got [music] to be fresh on the court. No, but I'm excited. You know what I mean? Like I said, he's someone that from the jump, you know, him coming to LA when I was at UCLA, you got to [music] play for the McDonald's game. you kind of saw the early the the beginning and it kind of just seen him continue to evolve and continue to be at one point, you know, the [music] greatest player in in the game and then one of the all-time greats, you know. So, I think to have the chance to sit down and and chop it up and reminisce and see what he's got going on post career now. I think it's just [music] going to be dope. Not only do somebody who I, you know, probably my favorite player of my time, right, [music] but uh somebody that I grew up with, you know, like I said, may able to play McDonald's game with, but last time I saw him was when he was able to talk to my son, okay, on his on his uh farewell tour and I never got a chance to tell him thank you. So, [music] this will be a great time to, you know, to pick his brain, see what he got going on, you know what I mean? And uh, you know, rap with Bean, man. that I think everyone thinks that he and I are enemies or [music] don't [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] with each other because that [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] that happened in Orlando with the ball fake, but that's what kind of really He ain't like that. No, that's what really brought us together, you know? That's what, you know, he after that season, he hit me up like, "Yo, you want to be a Laker?" I said, "Hell yeah." And he said, "Anyone crazy enough to [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] with me is crazy enough to play with me." So, I think there's [music] such like when people still you don't Kobe doesn't like you, you guys. I'm just like, it's [music] it's not even like to be honest with you. what you're talking about is what really brought us [snorts] closer and and made us become friends, you know. So, we had battles, but then, you know, as teammates, man, we had some some crazy [music] offthe-court fun [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] we did. You You know what I remember, dog? I was This is the first time I ever seen Kobe out. I was in Milwaukee. We played job. Remember, I was suspended. [music] Oh, we came to the club. You and you and you like me and you called me like, "Bro, I'm going I'm bringing Co. I'm like, "Man, Co ain't going out." He's like, "Bro, I'm [music] telling you." Yeah. And I walked in the club. Yeah. And Cole was in there. And I couldn't believe it, bro. [laughter] He like, "Bro, I'm telling you now. He going out, bro. I'm telling you. Coming out with me." Cuz I was I was in my room, you know, I was pregame and I went in the room, burned one real quick. And then I'm like, "Yo, what's going on, man? Let's Let's do something." And then he's, "All right, let's go." We went in all cities. We went out. We went out Milwaukee. [music] Yep. When you called me like, "Bro, I'm telling you, we going out." Like I couldn't believe it. No, we bonded the instantly, man. Like I said, on and off the court, you know, [music] we were both going through some stuff in our personal life. So, it was just like on the court we bled, but then off the court we [music] kicked it and we went out and did stuff and, you know, rolling with him was a whole another monster, man. We going to all these black tie events and you see [music] every That's kind of when I started I kind of owe it to Cob is, you [music] know, kind of started seeing these uh these Hollywood women, you know what I mean? And going to events with him. And once you open that door for me. So yeah, you ain't got to you ain't got to you ain't got to open it no more. Yeah, I'm walk I'mma walk myself in. I'm going to do my thing. So, you know, that's kind of like the 2000 when I was separated at the time, the 2010 time. That was the beginning of something beautiful. California love, man. You already know. A Laker. Yeah. And with with the one arguably one of the greatest Lakers Yep. of all time. Yeah. the teammate on the road just his focus is it doesn't deter he'll go out and have a good time it's not like he's going to go out all night and go crazy but if it's a situation where he does go out you know what I mean the next morning he's up early like the schedule's you know hadn't changed you know he's someone that you know insisted on working have a glass of wine every now and then huh the veno you know what I mean but he'll get out there and still do his early morning precise workouts or pre-shootaround workouts like he was a he was a beast you know what I mean like he enjoyed himself, but at the same time, he never let it take away from his craft. You know what I mean? And that's what I think he held people to a standard. You know, you want to go out, you want to go have fun, go do that, but don't let that [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] up what we got going on the next day. I don't know if he could have handled seeing what the kind of [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] we did with the We Believe team, though. But like you said, we still came out and did our thing though, every night. But we was in the streets every night at that team. If we was doing that and winning, he would have respected it cuz that's all he was about, right? At the end of the day, it's about do your job. But what you do off the court, as long as you winning, let's go. All the smoke. I'm looking forward to this. Obviously, I think our goal is to have a a candy conversation and and get some [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] out of him that he doesn't normally talk about. This [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] I'm actually enjoy playing against and enjoy watching. So, I'm actually a fan of this [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] And you can ask him about who deserve MVP in the McDonald's game. Yes, I have to get that answer. If he stamps you, you're good. Cuz I don't know if I believe it until he cuz I didn't watch the game. So, if he stamps you, if Kobe stamps that I should have won MVP in the McDonald's 96 All-American game, somebody need to send me a trophy. Y'all heard that. You better send that [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] I'm excited though. This going to be one for the books. All the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] smoke. Let's have a great show. Let go. [music] Welcome back. All the smoke episode 11 ringing in 2020. My guy 11. I don't I don't know how to say that in Spanish. Is it un? I don't know how you say that in Spanish. You played in Mexico, didn't you? Un special guest, man. Cob, we appreciate you, man. Thank you for your time. Uh, we've been looking forward to this, man. The fans have been asking, "You need to get Kobe. You need to get Kobe." So we we finally got cold, man. All right. We appreciate you, man. You got it, man. So, let's get into it, man. What is the difference between Kobe Bryant post career and the mamba, the killer we saw on the court? [sighs] Well, I think it's just um you know, a lot of the mentality is still the same. The industry just changes, right? So, the same focus, same attention to detail. Um you it's even more so now because you know, when you play, you got to take time off. You got to let your body heal. you got to do certain things. You know, in business and in creativity, there is no off switch day by day because your brain's constantly working, right? So, you know, the similarities are are there. It's the focus, attention to detail, and you try to surround yourself with people that are just as maniacal as you are about their craft. And then the differences are I don't have to put my body through hell every day. Yeah. True, true. Uh some of the things I've seen uh post career that that I love are obviously you know you coaching your daughter and then your new fascination with uh writing novels. Can you go into detail with those? Yeah. Well, coaching the kids is is fun. It just kind of came out of nowhere because my daughter just decided she wanted to play about two and a half years ago, you know. So, um, started coaching her a little bit and then she made a local all-star team and that's when we met the rest of the girls that are now on the team and, you know, they all started at the real kind of ground level, but they enjoyed playing so much. It just kind of grew into what it is now. And um, it's it's been it's been a lot of fun. And then the novel writing really started just with the kids. The kids can't keep reading stories that have no relation to them whatsoever. And I don't don't mean just from like, you know, a diversity like a color standpoint. Not only just that, but from the fact that they're athletes and there's no story that that kind of speaks to athletes. It's all like, you know, there's princesses and sleep and Prince wakes you up with the kiss and all. You know what I mean? Like I'm not not trying to read my daughters that, you know, you know, we enjoy that stuff, but it's not, you know, that's not reality of it. You're not going to sleep and then wake up years later later and be successful. You know, you got to work. You got to work. So, I wanted to create stories that I could read to them, athletes that go through that type of stuff. Right. Tell me what it's like coaching your daughter, you know, cuz I coach my boys. We'll be at the same tournament coming up this weekend. What is it like for you being on that sideline? It's fun cuz I get a chance to sit and watch and ask questions. You know, that's that's really my job and my my uh coaching staff's job is to really ask questions, you know, and let them figure things out throughout the course of the game. and you'll win some and you'll lose some that way. We'll probably win a lot more if we felt like we would micromanage how they play the game and call plays and sets and all sort of stuff, but we really just kind of sit back and let them process things and figure things out because we are playing for the long game of them being the best basketball players they can be. But it's fun to sit there and watch them hoot. I love it. You You didn't want an Oscar, you know, we we have we dream have a dream of winning an Emmy with our show. You didn't want an Oscar in the Emmy. What? Tell me how how did that what did that feel like to be able to say, you know, to win an Oscar. You know, of course, you wanted to be with six rings with Mike, but you have something that he probably he probably never get. You know what I mean? One of these. You know what I'm saying? Can't get one of these. So, how tell me about that. Uh, you know, it was it's different because in competition you're you're it's like it's a direct competitive thing. You know who your competitors are. You know who you face. Like, you know that. You know what I mean? So, it's like, you know, it's a it's a direct competition. And when it comes to the arts, it's not that you just try to create the best thing you possibly can and then see how, you know, in this case, the Academy responds to it. So, it's very different. Like sitting there at Oscar night, like there there's nothing you can do. Like there's no need to be nervous. There's no need to cuz things are what they are. It's out of your hands. You did the best job that you could possibly do. And then you go from there. But the biggest lesson learned from is you work with brilliant people that see the world the same way and magical things happen. And that's true across industries. You got I got John Williams and Glenn Keane who have never met but they are both giants in their respective industries see their craft the same way and you put them on a project together and you know what was it like for you coming into this business space overall with all your success you've had in sports you know I kind of feel like that next step in life people either kind of okay they praise you for what you did and and e eager to work with you or they're like oh this [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] thinks because he won five titles that he can do whatever he wants. It's a little bit of both, right? So, like I can get any meeting, you know, but then it's the followup, right? I used to get things all the time where it's, yeah, come in for the meeting for this company that you want to build these ideas that you want to build. That's all cool. And you sit down and they're trying to pitch you on being on the show, being in front of the camera. I'm like, I'm not about that. Right? So, it kind of it goes both ways. And so, what we've had to do is just build it ourselves cuz we just got sick and tired of it. you know, trying to go out and partner with people that, you know, act like they believe in the vision, but when the push comes to shove, they really don't. They just want me and my 20 years. You know what I'm saying? I'm trying to put that to bed and build something for the next 20 years. And the best way to do that is to do that ourselves, right? What was our pivotal moment growing up where you developed your desire and and the and the tremendous work ethic I speak on and mental toughness that you have? Was there early on pick that up? I'm trying to remember. I mean, we've, you know, we had a really competitive household with my cousins and, you know, my father and my uncle and stuff like we was very competitive and you know, you had to really really work to just survive like you know that's with swimming, that's playing basketball, that's playing video games, it's whatever. I mean it was a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] talking family like you know when you lose not only lose but you get embarrassed while you lose you know what I mean? So, I grew up in that kind of environment. So, you had to work hard just to just to kind of keep your head above water sort of thing. And I came into the NBA, I was like, "Man, these dudes really don't work that hard." It was pretty It was kind of an eye opener. It was like, but you you started off young like, you know, we we the same age. We grew up, but like you had a kill list at 13. I did. And I know we the same age. I'm glad I wasn't on it then. I'm glad I wasn't [laughter] on your kill list then. We was the same age coming up. That's like that Billy Madison [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] Like, check. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Who was on your kill list at 13, bro? Well, uh, Tim Thomas. Yeah, of course. Tim Thomas was. Uh, uh, no, Rip wasn't because Rip, Rip and I were like both nobodies. Yeah. So, he went to Coatsville and L Mar. We were nobodyies. So, we played on the same AA team together. Um, and so we were really close. So, he might have had a kill list, too. So, the kill list was what? Just people what? Ranked higher than you? ranked higher cuz I I like going into my sophomore year I was probably ranked somewhere in like the top 200 something like that and then then it kind of went up 150 and then by the time I was a senior hit number one but Jermaine was up there Lester Earl Holloway Cory Benjamin Mike Mike Bby you know what I mean you know that class was you know I tell you what the first time I ever I actually ever heard E40 was at a allameric American camp. Yeah, cuz we all hanging out in dorms and back then it was nothing but Biggie N stuff, right? So they were they were playing E40 and shooting crafts and I'm like, man, what y'all got to show me? [laughter] What's up? What is this? What's going on right now? You know, so it was fun getting to know everybody, you know, and then seeing kind of where we've all going since then. Well, you guys played in the McDonald's game together and Jack has you won MVP, right? MVP. I should have won MVP. You did win MVP, didn't you? So, see, I'm glad you said that, Cole. So, who won MVP? Shaheen Holloway, he had like 10 turnovers, too, bro. But you know what got an MVP? Remember the bounce pass to Lester Earl and he dunked on Boss? I think that was the big play. But I had I led the game in scoring actually was eight for 10 from the field, three for three from the three-point line. But our team, me, you, Rip, Jermaine O'Neal, and uh Sheen Holloway. Yeah, crazy starting five. That's crazy. I thought you did win MVP. No, I didn't. So he loves the fact that you thought he should have. But he said that's all that's all I want to hear. He wanted that. We talked about this before. He's like Shaheen Holloway won, but Cove knows I should have won. [laughter] I thought you did. I did. I did. Shaheen won it. Oh, damn. It was dope though. It It was a great experience because our team though, you got to let like me, you, Jermaine. How many made a long career out of it? All of us. Like, you know what? Rip Rip has some video. Remember his pops used to travel around with camcorder all the time. Yes. And so he was showing me some some clips from his some of his old footage and watching us knuckleheads walk around. I posted a picture recently of me, you, Mike Bby, and Rip at the McDonald's game. That's crazy. That's what me and you first met. That's nuts. Yeah, that's when we first met. Getting better. We getting better. Now, [laughter] we talked about this a little bit off camera when we were talking about Stephen A. Smith and kind of how the roles are reversed now and he's kind of almost in a in a player's perspective where he's getting criticized and everything. Was there ever anything as a player that you remember that was said about you or written about you that really kind of stung and hurt throughout your career? Uh, you know what's funny? All all of it does. You know, a lot of stuff said about me or, you know, selfishness type of stuff. It's like, bro, you can't win five rings being selfish. Doesn't happen. But I get that's kind of become the mantra. It's kind of become the slang, the vernacular, the the the running joke or he doesn't pass and all this other crap. Matt, that's okay, you know, but I'll take those five rings. Five of them, right? I'll take five of them. It's a lot. It's a I know me and Matt and I know you too, like I've been misunderstood and I honestly feel like I missed a a lot of a couple all-star appearances due to the brawl. Sure. You know, and um I've been misunderstood because you know me and he know me and I'm not the person that they they label me to be after the after being a loyal teammate. Right. What's the most misunderstood thing about you? I think it's that, man. I think it's the it's the selfishness or you know arrogant. Well, maybe not the arrogance that might be. You have to be though. You have to be. [laughter] You have to be. Maybe not that. You have to be though. I mean, you know, when I'm playing, it's it's a different side of it. I think it's uh the the the perception of the way I am on the court is the way I am off the court. It's two completely different things, man. Two completely different things. I mean, I can be an absolute teddy bear at home with my family, with my kids, and enjoying that family time. And um I'm really psychotic about having that family time and making sure we're we're doing what we have to do as a family, but I'm doing school drop offs and pickups and, you know, giving my babies a shower and doing all this stuff. Like I'm making sure I'm there for him as much as possible, right? And so, but on the basketball court, it's a completely different animal. And I think the biggest thing is, you know, I see people saying, "Well, I don't like him." You don't know. And what? Okay. I mean, who are you? Right. You know, like that sort of stuff. But it's all good. It comes with the territory. Have you Have you Hold on. Have you ever shot a ball from the free throw line? No. So, how do you do you feel that you should be if you're a top 10 player in the league, you should ever shoot a air ball at the free throw line? Uh, I'm sure it happens. You haven't? I haven't. I've never been top 10. I don't think if you're a top 10 player, you should never shoot a free a ball free throw. Are you referring to something in particular or just No, stars. All star period cuz multiple all star have done it. Yeah. I I've I've I can only speak from personal experience, man. I haven't I've never shot a air ball from the free throw line. And Okay. You You haven't? Okay. No. No. Not even with my left hand. [laughter] Not even my left hand. Right. All right. This year will be when June rolls around 20 years since you won your first title. What immediately comes to your mind? Crazy, right? Damn. Really? Yeah. [sighs] Long time. Whoa. Oh, man. Uh [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] No, I remember the just us, you know, being really excited that we got through Portland. They were tough. What? Tough. We had we had Bonsie on set a couple weeks ago and he was telling us about that series and how back and forth. It was a nightmare. It was a nightmare match up for me, man. Cuz he was I was really scrawny and like 120 soaking wet and he would just try to beat the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] out of me in the post. And uh him, Stacy Agman, they really helped me develop my post defensive presence cuz that was a weakness. I had to develop that quite a bit. I remember just going into the Indiana series, we were just ready. We were confident. We knew how we wanted to execute. We knew what we needed to do and we just tried to take them out their sets as much as possible, man. And then, you know, Jaylen slid his foot under mine and caused the series to go a little longer than it should have. But, you know, ultimately we got it done. Any pregame rituals or superstitions that you had throughout your care? Nah, you know, I don't have none. Just go out there and go to war. I mean, I go out and hoop, man. Like it like sometimes, you know, like on game day if I'm tired, I go to sleep. If I'm not, I won't. Like walking around, I walk around. A pre So a pregame nap wasn't essential for you? Nah. Like if I was tired, I'd go to sleep. If I wasn't, I just wouldn't. You know, sometimes I'd sleep like for 15 minutes on the training table before a game. And that's all you need just to reload. Yeah. Yeah. Cuz I'm already in shape. I don't need to sleep to be in shape to ready to go. Like I can run all day already. My stamina is already where it should be. So, like whether or not I'm sleepy or not, you know, like being sleepy and then being fatigued are two different things. I can play the game and be sleepy and not be fatigued. It's fine. Interesting. Lowest moment like uh we I know we had a couple lowest low moments in our career where, you know, either things we control or it was our fault. What's What was a low moment in your career? I don't really see you having that. There was a couple of them. Well, losing to the Celtics in08 was tough, but before that, like at the beginning of the journey was not playing. So, coming in as a rookie and saying, "Man, if I knew [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] was going to be like this, I would have went to school." Interesting. Right. Because I felt like my coach Dale Harris at the time was trying to make sure he did not show favoritism to the young kid. And as a result, he swung completely the opposite direction and doing things that weren't really fair. And I mean, not playing, you know? So like my first two, three years were were brutal. Were nightmares. People don't know that. People don't know you went through that your first three years. No, it was tough. I mean, I you know, I I I s sit around. I watch all my peers going out there playing 35 37 minutes. You know, AI, Ray Allen, they're all doing their thing. Share Abdul right here. Everybody's doing their thing. And I'm sitting here glued to the bench getting really really pissed off and ticked off thinking I should have just gone to college. I mean, that that was the hardest part. Yeah. What was finally what was that breakthrough when it was okay that your number was called? Did someone get hurt? He finally just started trusting you. What was it? So during the lockout season when the season started, Rick Fox had plantar fasciitis on both feet. He wanted to play somebody else in front of me and that person got hurt. And so then he had no choice but to start me but start me as small forward. And so this is when like small forwards were big small forwards. This is you know this is KG. This is from Abdu Raheem. This is Pip. This is like so I started the first whatever 10 games at small forward. I think I started like like seven straight double doubles or something like that and then I've been in the starting lineup ever since. No looking back. But I don't I mean I might have who the hell knows how long when I came off the bench before Rick didn't get injured. So [laughter] it's crazy when you see that. It was really really rough. It was really really especially too like I said I seen I got a different side because I went to UCLA almost parallel when you came to LA. So I would see you on campus. I would see you working out in the gym and I would know like damn this motherfucker's why is he not playing you mean I looked at it from like a point of view like I see this dude work out like people don't play like he looks like Michael Jordan out there like I would see he would come in after our UCLA practice I remember one time you had broke your right hand and you came up to UCLA and did a whole workout left-handed like you were a left-handed player and I was just like what [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] the next season you came back shooting left-handed shots people like oh my god he's this I was like no he worked on that [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] his whole time he had this hand in the cast. If you watch if you watch Kyrie, Kyrie get all that from you. You just mad. But I'm not playing, right? It's like you sitting down, you not playing, and you're watching everybody else kill the league when you know you should be doing that. It still pisses me off to this day cuz like ultimately, you know, what numbers would you have put up, right? Cuz everybody wants to go to that. Oh, let's go to career numbers. Let's go to career. Somebody wish somebody would have told me that back then. 3 35 4,000 more points. You know what I'm saying? So, you know, those three years of not playing and sitting on the bench and just watching, it's frustrating. Tough. What personal growth did you go through from 3P with Shaq, he's gone until you won your next title with with uh with Pal and the new crew. I understand how to connect uh the team more. I didn't have to with Shaq cuz Shaq was the guy that connected everybody and you know, still drove a hard bargain, but he was the jovial one and connected everybody. And so I figure out how to do that, but do that in my own way, right? You know, with uh with my sarcasm and, you know, uh dry humor or whatever the case may be and being authentic with guys, but still being able to build that relationship and understanding this is what it's about. And as a result, we wind up having the closest team. I mean, that was the closest team I've ever played on. Man, it was But that was the biggest change. What was Matt like as a teammate? You know, I played with him in Golden State. Uh it's my brother. Uh we've been through a lot of stuff on and off the court. Our mom's a best friend. I was with him during a tough time when he lost his mom. Um so our relationship is deeper than basketball. But what was he like as a teammate? Yeah. Um exactly what I thought he was going to be. [laughter] Feisty. Yeah. Tough. Competitive. Uh and not afraid of big moments. Mhm. You know, that's what I respected the most. Guys that aren't afraid. You got to have some cooness. When you playing with me, you ain't got no coonus, man. I ain't I ain't messing with Well, that kind of that kind of leads me to the next thing because I think people think there's such a disconnect between y'all because of the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] in Orlando. Oh, you know what? People really think that. No, I wanted him because of what happened. That's what he told me. That's what he said. [laughter] He like he say he's like anyone crazy enough to [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] with me is crazy enough to play with him. You know what I mean? So, it was funny though because that was just a back and forth game and that kind of just spoke to both of our competitiveness. You know, I the the year before you guys had uh beat Orlando. So, [clears throat] we come back the next year thinking, "Okay, we're going to play the Lakers again. We're getting towards the end of the season. It's a back and forth game." And I tell people when I played you, like I just look forward to it because I mean, everyone knows how [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] good you are. But you mentally attack people, too. You do your little code [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] where you're elbowing and grabbing, knocking the elbow me right here, knocking everything out [laughter] of me. Everything. I caught a duck tip. Eling me. I'm just like, "What the fuck?" And I'm the one getting foul. I'm the one getting teased. So, it just came to a pair of [clears throat] like, man, [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] I might have to [laughter] fight this dude. You know what I mean? Like, [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] basketball. [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] everything. So, [snorts] the play was crazy cuz I literally just faked the ball and it wasn't like thought of or anything and you and I didn't realize how close it came to your face. Obviously, you didn't move, but then when I saw after like that [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] was, [laughter] you mean like your eyelashes touched that [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] and this [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] might have been the only person on the [laughter] planet that like you flinch off some regular [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] like I put a whole basketball in his face after we had really been going through and he just [laughter] I was I was telling a story about we was in San Antonio. This is my second time. I turn around and shoot a jumper and you hit my whole arm. The referee's right there. Don't call nothing. You take the ball, haul up court, right? So, you know me, I'm always arguing with the ref. I'm in a full argument with the ref, but I'm guarding you at the same time. And so, you start telling me, "You better pay attention, [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] [laughter] You better pay attention." So, I'm arguing with the ref trying to listen to you. You shoot the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] from the logo net. Give me a look. Then the referee give me the same little look. Like I'm like, "So [laughter] look, this what made it worse. Then Pop sub right out." Of course he did. I'm like, "Oh [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] you going up at 69. I can't get my gift back." Hey man, I just try to [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] with y'all as much as possible. [laughter] So I knew about, you know, like you know, y'all coaches, you know, Pop, Gundy, man, you [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] coaches crazy, man. They're awesome, but they're crazy in a little, you know, they like. Yeah. Yeah. So I just tried to do what I could to take you guys out of the game, you know? You know, even if it meant like your replacement person that was coming, if you guys did a better job guarding me. Yeah. Then I'd be comfortable with that. Just to Yeah. Let them come in and guard me. Yeah. They do a much better job than these two guys. First was Bruce Bow and then me and somebody else. He's just knocking us all off. Yeah. And then you wait and wait and then you roast them and then you [laughter] guys are over there like, "What the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] am I doing over here?" [laughter] That's how it happens. A lot of long. But my whole thing with you was, you know, to me, you never good defense never going to stop great offense. I just wanted to make you work, you know what I mean? So, you know, with me, there was there was going to be hard fouls. There's going to be no easy layups. If you shot fake me too many times, I'm just going to foul you. [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] it. I'm just going to foul you hard. You know what I mean? And that's what I explained to people like great offense is always going to be great defense. You just want to make them work for everything. So, if you scored 30 points, I wanted you to take 30 shots. You know, that kind of thing. So, that was we went back and forth from threes when we was in go to state. That was in LA. I made the first he looked like, are you serious? Hit a shot all second half. one of them. [laughter] This [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] got hot. Have you ever sat down and had like a real off the camera uh combo with MJ? Oh, yeah. What What is that? What What is that like looking in the mirror? No, it's it's fun. I mean, it's fun. No, we're we're really different. It's crazy. Like, he he'll he'll compete to you. Anything. To you, y'all different. I mean, I guess I mean like he he'll compete with any and everything. I won't I only compete with things that I really am good at. Like, I'm not just going to compete on something you don't know yet. Yeah, I'm not going to do that. He'll compete at everything. You know, he'll uh you know, he'll talk basketball all day long and non-stop and compare. Well, what would have happened if you know my 911 against your 03 and you know like what's this? What would have happened in your opinion? Come on. You can't ask him that, man. I want to know would it been complete dominance? Would it have been seven game series? Like what would it have been? what what what he started the conversation with was well I would have destroyed you know [laughter] stuff and you know listen I just I just said listen just remember who you talking to and he just started laughing he's like I'm just messing with you I'm just messing with you and then we just kind of moved on so that's dope but it it would been it would have been fun that's dope that's dope man just to even know that y'all had that conversation is dope oh yeah how bad I remember playing with you your whole thing is You said, "I want to sit at the table with MJ." Yeah. Meaning you wanted that six ring. What did it mean not to be able to get that? Oh, it pissed me off, you know, but things are what they are, you know? You got to you you push for a goal and my original goal was to try to win eight eight and you push for it and you push for it and you push for and you do the best you can, but at the end of the day, you can be comfortable with the results and where they landed and where they ended up. And so, you know, that's the most important thing. That's why I can be really really comfortable with the career that I've had because, you know, I worked as hard as you possibly could. Mhm. And that's it. You and Shaq were able to win three together. Obviously, there's been back and forth of, you know, what he was like, what you were like, whatever. But if you guys were on the same page, connected mentally, how many do you realistically feel like you could have won? Yeah, it probably I mean, San Antonio was tough. They were they were tough. And so, like when the playoffs came around, it wasn't like Shaq and I weren't on the same page. when the playoffs came around, we always were on the same page. We just got beat. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? So, like we we've, you know, the bigger question would should be how many would we have won if uh the Spurs weren't the Spurs, you know, cuz you probably would have ran the team for a decade. He was he was killing he was by himself that year. No, he was lights out. He was lights out, right? And so the talent, the coaching, everything in San Antonio was kind of a perfect storm. And so if they weren't in the picture, we probably would have run 10 in a row. And they probably say the same thing about us. [laughter] That's crazy. You got a lot of young players that's reaching out to you now. Yeah. You know, your advice to them like like what you tell them like how does that feel? Depends what they ask. I mean like a lot of them will come and ask about their game and things that they should do and things like that. And I say listen, you got to you know the answer to that. I don't know. Like you know what makes you uncomfortable when you play. I mean, I think that's the biggest thing for kids nowadays is that they want to rely on coaches too much and workout guys, you know, which is fine to have them help you work out, but you have to tell them what you need, right? You have to be able to say, "Okay, I feel uncomfortable with this." And if you don't know, then you're not as prepared as you should be, right? You need to know what your strengths and weaknesses are first. And then, you know, I can tell you some of the things, some of the rhythmic things or some of the exercises or how much repetition you need to be doing on certain things, but you got to know your game. Where did that come from, though? Because you see, I mean, obviously one of the greats, you know, is where you rank, but I really see, you know, with your academy out there in Thousand Oaks, like you open up your doors and your arms for players to come in and and where did that come from that that giving back wanted to come from? Really? Well, the guys that came before did the same thing for me. You know, I' I've had really in-depth conversations with Jay West and talking about things. Same thing with MJ. You know, I've had great mentors, Elijah. I've had guys all time greats. Bill Russell, man, we talked a lot about how to win championships, how to lead. And so, I felt like it's it's my job to try to pass that information on to the next generation and then see the game develop and see it grow. You know what I mean? It's it's amazing to look back and see what some of these athletes are doing now, right? Whether it's the generation of uh James Harden, uh Luca Donuch now, and some of the player like it's fun to sit back and watch the game grow and uh that's why I do it. Who are some of the younger players or or players in the league right now that you do follow when you get a chance to watch? You know, it's funny. I wind up. So before Gigi got into basketball, I hardly watched it, but now that she's into basketball, we watch it's it's on every night. She wants to watch it, too. It's on every night. I love it. It's on every night. And And I mean every game. I mean, she she asked me to get the league pass on her phone and everything. Oh, yeah. She watches everything. So, you know, we'll watch She'll like She likes watching Trey Young a lot. She watches Luca a lot. She watches James. She watches Russ. I mean, she watches Brian. She watches I mean, she watches Mhm. Who would you who who you would watch? She watches. She watches who I would watch, I guess. I mean, and there's so many young talented players out there. It's uh it's amazing. And when I took her to the Laker game, that's the first Laker game I've been to, I think, since my jersey retirement really. And um we just had so much fun because for the first time, I was seeing the game through her eyes. It wasn't me sitting there, you know, as an athlete or a player or something like that and then, you know, it's it's like about me and I don't like that. It was her like she was having such a good time and the players were coming up and saying hi to her and you know and Brian was talking about her fade away and all you know it it was it was exciting and she had such a great time as a father you just that's all you want that's all you can ask for. Yes. Yes. Being a father with girls I have girls we both have girls. When it's time for that first date they going to get that mom book 81 point stab. You going to get the boy to stab like look bro I I put 81 on the court. Don't make me put 81 of these on you. [laughter] you know, uh I think it's implied. I think it's implied. I think it's already there, you know, and I think Vanessa honestly drives a harder bargain than I do when it comes to that really that stuff. Yeah. Yeah. So, you got to get past that line of defense first. Yeah. Moms don't, you know, that's national security. Yeah. Once you get past that, now you got to deal with the real big big big dog and that ain't going to be nice. You know what I'm saying? So, but no, it's good, man. We just try to raise our girls to be um strong, independent women. You know what I'm saying? Hold themselves to really high standards. Uh selfrespect, things of that nature. And you just trust that you've raised them the right way. You and Vanessa have been going for 20 years. Yeah. Tell me what I mean with with the height of your career and who you are, how what's your guys' secret sauce, man. Nothing's perfect, but you guys have seem to make it work. just just commitment and competitiveness of we are going to succeed, you know, like we've seen uh couples that have been like 85 years old, you know, and and you look and you're like, "Oh man, such an old sweet couple, you know, and all sort of stuff." And I'd go and I'd talk to him cuz I want to know. And one one time the guy goes, "Yeah, it's great, but I mean, she just kicked me out of the bed last night. I was sleeping on the couch [laughter] last two nights." I'm like, it don't change, man. It don't change. I've been married, you know, 70s something years, man. It doesn't change. So, it's a constant up and down, the eb and flows of relationships, but that's also the beauty of it and having the persistence and the determination to work through things. Very, very tough things. And, uh, we've been able to do that. Commitment. That commitment means everything. Pass. Last thing before we get out of here, the state of the Lakers. Yeah. With AD and LeBron, I think they've turned the corner. Um, you know, hats off to uh Rob and in the front office who've kind of orchestrated this team, but what do you think of first them as a duo, but then the state of the Lakers? Yeah. Well, I I think I think people got to uh uh should really sing Rob's praises. Absolutely. I mean, cuz they I mean, they were they were they were like killing them. They were I was the one that spoke I was one of the people, like I said, when I spoke cuz you know me, I'm straight from the cuff, you know, even though I know Rob and I've seen him at games and we've shook hands since, but I was just like, you know, it looks like a disaster right now. and they navigated through and put parts together that work, but they seen the big picture when nobody else didn't. But but that's the point though, right? It's like being able to stay the course. And you know, Rob and I have talked about that stuff. Like we and I talk, we don't talk about, you know, this move or that move. It's more so him as a friend is just saying, "Rob, you've been there with me. Now it's just you going through it." And you know how we handle it is you just stay the course. All the storms going on and you just stay here. Just do your job. Do your job. Do your job. Do your job. But man, I mean, what he's done with that team in two years, from the contracts that they once had and were tied up to to what they have on this roster now, I mean, they are the biggest team that I probably ever seen. Their length, old school big, too. Old school big, tough, tough, um, athleticism. [clears throat] So, they they look fantastic. I think the biggest thing for them and, uh, what they really need to invest in is health. making sure their strength training is where it should be, making sure physically they're always where they should be. They got Judy over there. Judy Judy's over there full time now. She's one of the best time. She's the best. And so I think that's the biggest thing for them is just health. If they're healthy, you know, it's going to, you know, it's going to be a hell of a freeway series here. Yeah. So that's you feel like it's going to be Lakers and Clippers coming out of the West. It looks like it. It looks like it. I mean I you know that that Clippers team is uh well put together too man. They got they got dogs man that ain't scared of nothing. [laughter] Before we close on a show previously I sent you a shout out. Um [laughter] so me and my son's been trying to find this undefeated pack. Okay. You got to step send me in the right direction, bro. We need them. The right direction is right here. Yeah. Right here. Depends depends what the what sizes what size they are. See, soon as I walked in, the first person got dusted ones off you got on. I'm a big time shoe fan of yours, bro. But the undefeated pack, I need them. We need them. We may have some here. This is Jack. This is Jack's begging segment. He always has a segment where he tells MJ, "I need my boxes back." So, you were next on the list, man. But we just We really appreciate your time, man. Thank you, bro. My pleasure for having it, bro. I can't believe you two guys are doing media. Yeah. And doing it good. Doing it great. Great. That's it, man. Man, that's a wrap. Episode 11. Uh, man, we hope you guys enjoy it. We can't thank our guests enough. One of the greatest of all time, Kobe Bryant, Jack, we did it. Did it again, baby. Your hands aren't soaking wet. Congratulations. You did, man. Make sure you check this out. Showtime basketball YouTube channel and all platform streaming podcast. Onset. All these years we've been building, building, building. When that opportunity do come my way, that's when the magic happens. What a chaos. [screaming] Growing up in an Edelin household was crazy. Depression, anxiety. Those were things I had. I had haters before. I've just got more now. Legalizing sports gambling. Might as well legalize cocaine and crystal meth. So many people wanted Sunny dead. Question is who got him first? This is the hard work part. It's the part they don't see. [music] We help people understand football. Holy goodness smokes. What a fight. Power. [screaming] All this power.
