---
title: "Kobe Bryant Up Close Interview"
date: 2013-06
source: "Jimmy Kimmel Live"
type: video_interview
url: "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ORhcTM80e0A"
extraction_method: yt-dlp_auto_sub
transcript_quality: auto-generated
---

Welcome to the Nokia Theater at LA Live. Tonight, Access TV goes up close with NBA legend Kobe Bryant and Emmy award-winning host Jimmy Kimmel. All proceeds from tonight's event support the Kobe and Vanessa Bryant Family Foundation and Cedar Sinai Sports Spectacular in their efforts to eliminate homelessness throughout Los Angeles. Please welcome our special guest, Mr. Kobe Bryant and our host for the evening, Jimmy Kimmel. Yeah. Yeah. Just we're going to get a jib. [Applause] All right. It's not weird. Well, look at this. Thank you. How about that? You don't even have to play. Welcome everyone. Thank you for coming. This is Kobe Bryant. He plays for the Lakers. Well, thank you. Have a seat, Kobe. Thank you. You guys have a seat, too. Well, first of all, it's a miracle. You're walking. You're You're up on your feet. I mean, it's incredible. I feel I feel good. I feel good. You uh you do feel good. I feel I feel great actually. It's um I've been I've been pretty fortunate with the surgery. It's been good. Can you hear Kobe? Okay. Can you hear me now? That sounds better. I'll translate if there's any trouble. I Well, I saw you on Instagram picking up marbles with your toes, so that has to be a good sign, right? Yeah. I mean, you know what? This I'm just going to like just sit here like this and I I I struggle picking up marbles with my toes, but you know, whatever the great Judy Cedo tells me to do, I listen and it's going to get my foot better and get me ready to win the sixth one. So, well, I want to start off um by um reading something that you wrote right after you were injured. You went on Facebook and you posted a lengthy blog. You know what this is? Oh yeah. You said this. You going to read the whole thing? I'm going to read some of it. This is such BS. All the training and sacrifice just flew out the window with one step that I've done millions of times. The frustration is unbearable. The anger is rage. Why the hell did this happen? Makes no damn sense. Now I'm supposed to come back from this and be the same player or better at 35. How in the world am I supposed to do that? I have no clue. Do I have the consistent will to overcome this thing? Maybe I should break out the rocking chair and reminisce on the career that was. Maybe this is how my book ends. Maybe father time has defeated me. Then again, maybe not. It's 3:30 a.m. My foot feels like dead weight. My head is spinning from the pain meds and I'm wide awake. Forgive my venting, but what's the purpose of social media if I won't bring it to you real? No image. Feels good to vent. to let it out, to feel as if this is the worst thing ever. Because after all the venting, the real perspective sets in. There are far greater issues and challenges in the world than a torn Achilles. Stop feeling sorry for yourself. Find the silver lining and get to work with the same belief, same drive, and same conviction as ever. One day, the beginning of a new career journey will commence. Today is not that day. If you see me in a fight with a bear, pray for the bear. I've always loved that quote. That's mamba mentality. We don't quit. We don't cower. We don't run. We endure and conquer. So, you're kind of going back. First of all, they must have had you on some great drugs when you wrote that, man. You know, that's it's uh it's that good old Vicodin, I guess. Vicodin. Yes. And when does anybody uh consult you before you tweet when you're on Vicodin? No. No. I you know I called him uh you know sometimes you just just let it run things by people. Well, I mean that that post right there was just uh I just I couldn't I couldn't sleep and I was up and just thinking about everything and it just I had to let it out. So lucky you have Facebook to talk instead of her in the middle of the night. She's you know she's heard it. She's heard it before, man. She's heard you. Uh, this is your 18th season. Do you think you played too many minutes last season? Um, you know, I I can't say that I did. I I think I think you did. Yeah. I mean, with the with an Achilles injury, you it's just one of those freak situations. I mean, it's tough to really understand or know when that threshold is or when, you know, when enough is enough. I mean, it's it's tough, right? That may not have been well probably wasn't the reason for the injury, but you got Tim Duncan playing 10 minutes a game less than you're playing. You're in your 18th year. Do you think next season you will play less? You'll be more conservative. Well, I mean, that's the that's the goal. You know, that's why we uh you know, we went out, we we got a little younger. We picked up, you know, a couple uh a couple wing players who I really think are going to, you know, help us tremendously next year and Nick Young and Wesley Johnson. you know, I I really I really look forward to them carrying um carrying a significant amount of that weight and, you know, easing the load. Yeah, we'll see what happens when you get on the court. Hey, man. Listen, I you know, I I I could sit back until June, man. Just you know, I just want that jewelry. You said you plan to um you said you plan to shatter the record for the quickest recovery time from this injury. Yeah. Do you do you think you'll be playing at the beginning of the season? Uh I don't know if I'll be ready to open at night. I I I really don't know. I mean, I know I'm really really ahead of schedule and um you know, whether I'll be ready opening night, I don't know, but I'm I'm planning on coming back as, you know, as soon as possible. Has A-Rod visited you in the hospital? He might be able to help. No, I haven't heard from him. What did you do while you're laid up in bed for such a long period of time? Uh, actually I I watched every season of Modern Family. Like every season. Watched, you know, a bunch of movies. Um, Disney movies, kids, you know, we all just kind of laid in the bed and just watched TV. It was like you were at home sick from school and mommy was taking care of you. Exactly. You know, I was eating in the bed and everything. So you um you uh how do you not get fat when you're in bed that much? You'd have to roll me out. I'd be like one of those guys you see on TLC. I don't know. I I don't know, man. I I didn't I don't uh I'm not I'm not really a big eater. I like sweets, though. I see. You were uh live tweeting during uh Thank you. during a Lakers uh playoff game, and I loved it. I thought it was great, but you said you would never do it again. Is was that your decision or did the Lakers suggest that you never do it again? Well, and I'm I'm you know, with all due respect, they know I'm a little too stubborn to really tell me anything. You know, kind of going to do it anyway if I want to do it. So, do you think they are aware of that? Um cuz I have that same inclination. If you're told to do something, you feel like you have to do the opposite. It's not even like you just feel like it's almost as if they're taunting you. No, I mean it wasn't wasn't really that big a deal. I you know the uh ownership didn't have a problem with it to be honest with you. It was just um I thought it was pretty damn cool. I mean I enjoyed it. I enjoyed it too. Um I enjoyed when you were tweeting during your 81 point game as well. I mean that was you know to look back at that and to give people that are reading your Twitter account insight into what was going through your head at that time. Yeah, that was that was the first time I watched the game. That was the first time watching it. That was the first time you ever watched a game. See, that's a big difference between u uh you and I is if if I were to score even eight points in a game, it would be on an endless loop at my house. But 81 points. Yeah. I don't I don't know. That is I mean your grandmother was there for that game. She was. She was. It was her first time ever watching me play in an NBA game. And um And did she think you scored 81 points every single time? No. Her concern was that I was too tired after the game. Oh, really? She was more concerned for my for my health. You just got back from the Philippines, right? Yeah. Did you visit Manny Pacquiao there? Um, no, I didn't see him. But, you know, when when we arrived, um, you know, in our in our, you know, villa, he had his entire staff there. His staff, like his entire staff and the chef and everything. They prepared like this full on like 10 course meal. It was incredible. It was incredible. And, you know, I sat there and stuffed my face. I I I said I was going to start my diet, but then I decided to start. So, Manny Pacquiao sent you room service essentially. Yeah. Yeah, with the shot. I mean, it was like he set up the whole room. I mean, he just went above and beyond, man. You stopped there on the way back from China. Yeah. You go to China every year now. Yeah. You're very popular in China. Why are you so popular in China? Uh, I don't know. I mean, I I've been going to China for years now. I started going out in like 1998 doing camps and clinics and stuff like that. And I don't know. We just There's a statue of you. I believe we have a picture of the statue. um in China. Uhoh. And um we're going to bring it up now. That's that's uh [Applause] for some reason they they put you in Urkl shorts. Uh that's got to be strange to know that in a foreign country, a place where you don't speak the language at all, they've erected a statue of you. Yeah. I mean, especially I I didn't even I didn't even know it. Yeah. Um, we uh we actually have a clip that I would like to show. Um, I don't know if if you've seen this. You probably haven't because this aired in the United States while you're in China. And this is how beloved Kobe Bryant is in his native land of China. Kobe Bryant. KBY on the second stop of his annual summer trip to China. About 25,000 screaming fans climbing trees and jamming the streets outside of a sporting goods store. [Applause] [Music] What did you do to him? I don't know. You have um you have the number one selling jersey in China. And I think that's particularly significant because your jersey outs sells Yao Ming's jersey. And Yao Ming, I don't know if people are aware of this, is Chinese. He's actually from China, right? I I don't know what to say, man. It's just, you know, I have a good time. We go out there and they're really passionate about the game. I I don't I don't know. They must love the game. By the way, the remainder of tonight's presentation will be conducted in Italian. Uh Bravo. See, [Applause] do you understand what I said? Yeah. Yeah. It was a poor rendition of Italian, but I got it though. That makes one of us. I got it. You uh you spent a lot of your childhood in Italy. Yeah. English is not your first language, right? No. No. It's uh actually I'm still an absolute horrendous speller. a bad speller. You think that is you attribute that to learning Italian? That mean that's my excuse. Well, your English is very good. I understand you perfectly. Thank you. You became a Lakers fan living in Italy. Yeah. Did they show Lakers games in Italy? Yeah. So, um, at the time my grandfather, uh, used to send me tapes of Laker games cuz back then, you know, basketball wasn't as global as it is now. So, he used to send me tapes. I used to sit um you know in the living room and watch Magic and Byron and Worthy and Cap and you know the whole crew and I just absolutely fell in love with the Lakers. Magic Johnson was your favorite player. Yeah. Magic Johnson said and I think this is this has got to be as good as it gets. Magic Johnson said you're the greatest Laker ever. No. What do you um you know um it's I can't I grew up watching him so I learned from him. See what I mean? So the respect goes above and beyond you know I can't I will never accept that because everything that I have I learn from you know great such as such as himself. So um you know it's just uh I had a chance to go to the Dodger game recently and it's and uh you know I sat with him and that that was really the first time in my 17 year NBA career that we had a chance to sit and talk and you know we just shared old stories and he talked about you never spent time with him no I never had a chance to sit down and talk like that last year last year was the first time I ever spoke to Larry Bird I never even met him which is strange but how is that possible we never never crossed paths just never cross you both worked for the Lakers Um, when what was it like when your family moved from Italy to Philadelphia? I mean, was that uh It was uh it was it was different. It was an adjustment. You had to learn to speak English like everyone did as well as everyone did. Yeah. Well, you had the the kind of um some of the insecurities that come along with not being able to speak the language, you know what I mean? So, it was like I I learned Thank you. Love you too. Uh knowing how to speak English but not understanding kind of the slang and the slang. Yeah. The the uh yeah the kind of subtleties and the intricacies. So you know playing basketball kind of helped bridge that gap. Did playing basketball uh did that help you be accepted socially by the other kids and that sort of thing? Well, I mean a little bit. I mean I there was there was one kid um it's petty I know but whatever. His name is Victor. And I remember Victor. His name was Victor. Little bastard. Whatever. And he he was he was giving me a hard time about being this foreign kid. And your dad's a NBA player and you think you're good, but I'm blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. All right. So, we we played we played a one-on-one game and it was like I swear it was like a I don't know. It was like one of those like movie scenes. We're like in a knife fight or something. It's like everybody standing around watching. Everybody standing around watching. and I just devoured the poor kid and kind of, you know, I'm enjoying rubbing it in a little bit right now. So, Victor was not the Victor. Yeah, Victor had a tough day and he had to change his name to loser sadly. And then you uh Yeah. Well, and then you came to uh California, much like the Fresh Prince of Belair from Philadelphia. Um, you said in the past that if you'd gone to college, you would have gone to Duke. Mhm. Are they the ones that offer you the most money? Hey, you know, um, no. Uh, but Coach K, I I loved Coach K. Coach K was phenomenal. Um, but I I I I got to say, you know, the truth has to come out that I I love Duke. Um Dean Smith sent me a letter and actually said that he was going to stop recruiting me because he believed that I was going to go pro. But if I had to make a decision, I I probably would have wind up going to Carolina just cuz Really? Yeah. Because because of the competition. So the year before u my senior before I graduated, Vince Carter went to Carolina and the year before he was the best guard in the country. So, I'm looking I'm saying, "Yo, I want to play against him every single day because I I want to get better. I want to measure myself against these guys, you know? I want to measure myself against uh competing against a Vince Carter, um, you know, Phelps, Rashid Wallace every day. Um, that's something that I was really looking forward to doing, wearing the same uniform that Michael Jordan wore. Yeah, no pressure there. You um, who else tried to recruit you besides Duke and North Carolina?" Uh, Kansas was was was a big one. Um, the first letter I ever received, first college letter I ever received was from West Point. Um, did you consider that at all? Not really. Uh, I I was just excited to get a letter. That was pretty cool. Do you feel like you missed out on anything uh by not going to college? The wet t-shirt contest, the spring break, and Yeah, I mean, you know, you miss out on that stuff, but that's the sacrifice that you that you make. I mean, I I I I You go to college, the way I looked at it, you go to college, you get a job, and I have a job sitting right here for me, that's um that's that's challenging. You get to compete against the best. And I just I couldn't pass on that. Do you tell young people not to go to college? Uh you know, I I tell them I tell them to follow their dreams. That's what I tell them. Do you give advice? Are you uh the kind of guy that gives advice to people? I'm not I'm not really the the kind of the patient type to really sit down and give advice. Mhm. It's more like I've heard that about you. I've heard that about you. You want to do something, do it. You give it in short bursts. Yeah. I have a photograph I'd like to share. It's a shocking photograph. I think it's going to horrify some people in this room, but uh let's put that up on the screen if we could. This is um this is something that would probably have been better destroyed. No, listen. I first of all, I I hated the Celtics just as much as everybody here. So, you know, Dennis Johnson, Dennis Johnson, um, you know, may he rest in peace, Dennis Johnson, um, when I saw him and he was going to be a part of the workout, it I I wanted to just annihilate him. It was just like Dennis Johnson from the Celtics, you know, I remember what you did to Cool. I remember what you did to Magic, the little elbows, and all this other stuff. I'm giving it to you right back right now. I don't care how old you are, you're going to get it right now. And so, you know, I I had actually I wound up having a good time working out for them. Um, I actually had a really good and fun workout with the Clippers. Um, I did I did I had a really good workout with the Clippers and then they they they told me this is probably too much information, but nobody. So I I had a really good workout with the Clippers and they told me they said, "You know, this is the best workout we ever seen." So I'm like, "Oh man, I'm excited." I'm like, "I'm going to come to LA." I said, "All right, so you want to draft me?" No, no, no. That's what makes them the Clippers. Well, I asked him why. I said I asked him. I said, "Listen, I for me as as a as a as a kid in Philadelphia, you've had like the the horrible winters, you know, I'm excited to come out to LA, palm trees and all that, right?" So, I asked them why wouldn't they draft me? They said, "Well, we want to turn things around um with our organization, and we felt like we felt like if we drafted the 17-year-old kid, then the city of Los Angeles wouldn't take us seriously." And so, they said, "We can't draft you." They always make the best decisions. Oh, man. Dude, that was like that was so much motivation. I think what uh 2004 was it that you were considering going to the Clippers? Were you really considering going to the Clippers? Yeah, you were. Yeah. Even with that stupid uniform they wear, you were going to put that on? Yeah, I was. Isn't that like signing an endorsement deal with RC Cola? No, [Applause] I mean it was a it was a really it was really really um tough because it was a it was a tough period where you know Shaq had demanded a trade. Well, he just prior to him demanding a trade and he and I just weren't going to play together anymore. It was just the the challenge was thrown down. I had to prove that I could win without him. And um you know some something had to give and so I started looking at other teams as being a free agent. Um but the purple and gold is you know has always been in my heart. So it was very tough for me to have to to have to look at that you know look at that option. Um I'm fortunate you know fortunate for you made the right decision. Well I mean it was actually was Dr. Jerry Bus man. He he he had the vision. He had the confidence. He had the you know the belief in me to uh to entrust his organization. Um you know with this young Why does everybody love Dr. Bus so much? Every player you talk to says the same thing that the reason I stayed is because of Dr. Bus and and when it comes down to it, the guy that comes in and closes the deal is Jerry Bus. Well, I mean he was very uh yeah, he's Dr. Jay Bus, man, he was very um he knew exactly what his vision was. He had a very clear plan. When you sit down and you talk to him, he was very patient. Um he was very understanding. Um and like I said, he communicated clearly. And um for me, he he allowed me room to grow as a person. You know, when I first came here, I was, you know, 17 years old. I'm I'll be uh what be 35, I think. I don't know. 35, 36. I lose count after a while. Um, and he allowed me to grow and mature. You like Jerry's in general. Jerry West also someone you were close to. Took a chance on a uh a teenage a teenager. Yeah. [Applause] 17 years old. You do you remember, by the way, you were drafted what the 13th? Is that that correct? 13th pick. Yeah. Do you know uh who was drafted ahead of you? No. I suspect that you have the list of names in your head in order. Maybe a little bit. Do you? Maybe a little bit. You want me to go through it? Sure. Alan Iverson, Marcus Cami, Sharief Abdul Raheem, Stefan Marberry, Ray Allen, Antoine Walker, Lorenzan Wright, Carrie KDles, Samaki Walker, Eric Dampier, Todd Fuller, Vitali Bodapeno, [Applause] then you you got drafted behind Vitali. I know. I know. Should never get drafted behind a Vitali just in general. I think the pick the pick after me was it I think it was Steve Nash, wasn't it? Uh I stopped at 13. Yeah, I think it was Steve. I think it was Steve Nash. I mean, it was uh but we it was a I like the idea that you you're acting like you don't know if it was Steve when I know you probably remind him of this every day. What's up 14? [Applause] Why didn't you want to play in Charlotte? um it wasn't much of my um choice or option. You know, I was actually told that, you know, um they really couldn't have used me in Charlotte cuz at the time they had, you know, they had a lot of guards there already and they were pretty they were doing all right and they didn't honestly they didn't they didn't want me. They wanted to trade me. So that's another great decision. What was it like to be a teenager with a lot of money? Uh, it was it was cool. Do you remember your first big expenditures? No, not really. I I'm not really a big um I wasn't a big like, you know, I got to get this car or whatever. Um, I was just all about the game. The game just completely consumed me. That's all. That's that was my focus 100% of the time. Is it true that when you're in high school, you would show up for practice at 5:00 a.m. and not leave until 7:00 p.m.? Yeah. Do you think that's because you love basketball or because you're crazy? Both. A little bit of both. You you joined the Lakers the same year as Shaq. Do you remember the first time you met him? Uh, I think the fir What did we do the first time? I think we went out to dinner at Jerry's Deli in Beverly Hills. How much did he eat? And I I thought it was the coolest thing in the world that he had a cell phone that was like this big. And it was like Shaq said that you would he would sometimes see you practicing uh without a ball like that crazy guy in Above the Rim. Who taught you to practice without a ball? Dude, you can't listen to half the hell that Shaq says, man. [Applause] I I always I always practice with a ball. I love shooting too much. Of course I had a ball. Not going to not doing that. [Applause] You and you and Shaquille against Jordan and Pippen. Two on two. Oh, we would win just cuz. And no free throws. No, no, no, no, no. We No, we would win that. I mean, just cuz you know, Shaq, you know, we I I joke around. I like needling Shaq a lot because it's just fun to do that. But um the guy was an absolute force, man. Like the stretch that from 2000 to 2003 this guy was doing is something that you know you you haven't seen in the history of the game. I mean NBA finals averaging 40 and 15. I mean it was like he was doing he was doing some pretty supernatural stuff man. And so that matchup just wouldn't just wouldn't work out just because of him. You and Shaq won three titles together. Which was your favorite of those? Well, yeah. Um, number two. Yeah, it's got to be It's got to be number two. It's got to be number two. Um, it still eats a little bit at all of us. I'm sure Robert, you know, Robert's in here somewhere. It probably still eats away at him a little bit, too, because we should have went undefeated in the playoffs that year. Should have went undefeated. And it's it bothers us. It still bothers us to this day that we let that game one drop. That is funny. You won and you're still upset. Listen, man. You You know, Yeah. We already established I'm a little off. Yeah. Little off. You went to uh Michael Jack Michael Jordan's Michael Jackson. Um you went to the Neverland Ranch recently. No, you um you were at Michael Jordan's 50th birthday party. No. Did you bring him a gift? No. There's nothing you can give him. No. No. What I'm going to give him? Um, what's your relationship like with Michael? It's fantastic. I mean, it's u, you know, a big brother type of relationship. Is he Does he Does he give you advice? Yeah, he does actually. Yeah. Good advice. Great advice. I I'll never I'll never ever well I'll never ever ever um say that. I mean I him and Magic and those guys and you know Michael in particular has really given me phenomenal advice and how to take a team uh particularly with the personalities that that we have and how to better communicate with your teammates, how to better elevate your teammates. What player in your career did you learn the most from? Oh, Michael. Michael, for sure. Even though you never played together. For sure. Wow. Who's the toughest guy you ever played against? Toughest guy I ever played against. Depends. It It's I can go by I can go by Aerys actually. So, so uh there's a there's a stretch there. I didn't ask you guys. I asked him. [Applause] There there was a stretch where uh Allan Iverson was just really I mean he was he was a load to deal with man. He was really really tough. And there was a game where he dropped 44 on me in Philadelphia. There was a game in New Jersey where Malberry dropped 50 on me. There's a game where Arenas had 60. Uh Carmelo Anthony is always tough for me to deal with. You know, Durant's always tough uh to deal with. Um so I mean there's there's a lot of guys, but the guy that always gave me the most problems actually was Tracy McGrady. Tracy McGrady. Yeah. Yeah. Tracy, Tracy McGrady with his, you know, he he had all the skills and all the athleticism. Um but he was 69 and he was really really tough to figure out. We are we're going to take a quick break here, but I have a lot to ask you. Um, we're here tonight for a good cause, Kobe and Vanessa's Foundation to End Homelessness. And u, thank you all for coming. We'll be right back with Kobe Bryant up close. Well, we are here at the Nokia Theater. Uh we've got a full house on hand for Kobe Bryant up close. We're back on the air, everybody. So, um again, this is this whole event is here is put together because um of your efforts against you. You want to kill homelessness. Yes. Yes. And um and thanks to everyone for being here. Um, and I know we are are here tonight to try to end homelessness, but if there's only one to be only one homeless person in the world, um, would you be happy if that was Dwight Howard? [Applause] [Music] I'll take that as a yes. He's a Dwight. Dwight's a great kid, man. No, Dwine is not a great crime. I'll speak for I'll speak on your behalf. Listen, I one thing you guys know about me is I have absolutely no filter and I have no problem saying what the hell I feel. So, he's actually a good kid. He's a good kid. You know, we we we have different perspectives on what it takes to win and what it takes to be successful. And because of that, we obviously had times we didn't see eye to eye, but you know, it is what it is. You were part of a a group of people that the Lakers put together, assembled to come in and to talk to Dwight to try to convince him to stay in Los Angeles. But, you know, knowing you, I I wonder at that point, knowing you have to convince someone to stay and play with you, do you write them off at that point? I mean, at that point, do you go, "Hey, I don't want this guy on my team if I have to convince him to be here." You know, it's it wasn't it's not about it wasn't about me. It was about the organization. It's about the organization. It's about, you know, everything that they've done for me throughout my career. And it's about me trying to help them out in any way I can to set them up for the future and for for when I retire. Weren't about me. When you got injured, Dwight said, and this is a quote, "Now with Kobe out, I understand that I have to do more and be more for this team. This is a great opportunity for me. This is a great opportunity. So, there's no need to get down about it. This is a great opportunity for us to do something special and make believers out of everybody." He saw your injury as a great opportunity. Did that Did that bother you at the time? No, it didn't. No, it didn't. You know, it's it's um I understand um that philosophy and you're trying to, you know, stay positive and motivate the guys. I I I have absolutely no problems with that. You because you at one time maybe felt like people said, "Oh, you only win because Shaq is your teammate." And then that drove you to I never I didn't I didn't I never cared about when other people said that. It never bothered me that people said, "Well, you only win championships because you're playing with Shaq." It bothered me when he said it. You understand? So when he said it, I said, "Okay, you know what? That's it." Cuz you know what time it is. But you told us yourself that you shouldn't listen to what Shaq says. You said you wanted to be a Laker for life, but the Lakers, well, we all know the situation. They might be trying to clear cap space to potentially lure someone like LeBron andor Carmelo Anthony. Are you certain that you will be a Laker for life? Yeah. Phil, um Phil Jackson, another guy you you've had a kind of an up and down relationship with and I think it's up now, right? I love Phil. Phil said wrote that you were um he said that your philosophy was give me the damn ball, but at a certain point you that changed. You started taking your teammates to dinner. You started socializing with them and treating them like partners. Was was that a conscious decision you made or did that just happen? It was it was it was part of the evolution of understanding um you know what it takes to enhance the group around you. You know, I was a person that was completely consumed with my craft. And, you know, I got to a point in my career where I had to kind of take a step back and start looking outwardly and not looking, you know, internally of how to make improvements, but start looking at others and saying, "Okay, how can I make him better? How can I improve him? What's he going through, etc., etc." And that, you know, that that came from, you know, Phil's direction. And you do you feel like your your philosophy as a leader has changed significantly over the years? Um yeah, it has actually. I you know my demeanor and my temper probably calmed down maybe a little bit but just kind of how I view things and how I perceive things are it's different. It's different. I go into games now um you know when I made that that adjustment looking at um you know what are my guys going through you know who's struggling what can I do to help and sometimes that might take me out of rhythm of the game but that's fine because I you know that's I rather me have to try to go through that uphill struggle um as opposed to my teammates having to do it. Will you miss Metal World Peace tremendously? you. I really like him. I mean, not He's still around, I guess, but What's the funniest thing you ever saw him do? Uh, what's the funniest thing I ever seen Meta do? He's done anything like funny. I mean, he's done some pretty weird seems to do some pretty weird stuff. Uh, didn't you didn't you I I seem to recall you telling me you met him in the shower. Well, that's kind of what I was alluding to. Oh, I see. You know, it was after we we got beat by the Celtics uh 2008 in the finals and I you know, I'm in the shower and I'm I'm pissed beyond belief and I'm just standing there. I'm like in the shower for like an hour and I just hear yo yo. I turn around and I'm standing in the shower and he's standing there and he says, "This ain't going to happen no more. I'm going to come and I'm going to help you and we're going to win and this is not going to happen. I'm going to have your back." I was like, you know, like, damn, man. We could like hug it out right now, but not really. Yeah. You know, who is the funniest guy you ever played with? Uh, Shaq. Shaq and Gary Payeyton. By far. By far. Who's the smelliest player you ever played with? Uh, Brian Grant because of his dreads. The dreads. If you could pick one uh one player to join you on the Lakers, anybody, who would you pick? Oh, I I I'd take Derek Fischer back. Derek, that's that's my guy, man. That's like, you know, we came in this thing together, you know, we we we won five titles together. I mean, that's like, even though he's 70 years old, man, I'm 65. Do you think Chris Paul should be a Laker right now? Legally speaking, yeah, he should be. Yeah. David Stern speaking? No. He's going to love that one. He's going I I thought he actually I thought it was I you know I I was working out. I was lifting weights getting ready and you know Chris called me and told me he was coming you know and said it was a done deal and I was like all right well cool. You know I was um it was kind of mixed reactions cuz you're losing teammates you know Py and Lamar you know so it's tough. Um then he calls me back like 30 minutes later and said, "Man, you won't believe it." I said, "What?" David Stern killed the deal, man. That's some bull, you know. And then it kind of went from there. And then he ended up in LA anyway. So yeah, close, but no cigar, I guess. Um on a on a scale of 1 to 10, how much does it bother you when the Lakers try to trade Palas? [Applause] It seems like it bothers you a lot. It does. It does. It um Yeah, it's uh let me see how I can how can I put this. So that we we had a stretch where we won championships with, you know, pal anchoring the offense for us, you know. Then we went through a stretch where, you know, we had Andrew developing. So we try to work him into things. We had Dwight come try to work him into things. And through that process, through that process, everybody forgot how we won in the first place. So, right, you know, so Pal's in a tough spot because everybody's asking him and wanting to see more from him, but he's not getting the same opportunities that he was getting before. So, you know, can't have it both ways, man. Yeah. Well, that makes sense. Yeah. And but he's still with you and that's good. Yeah. You um what's your favorite basketball movie? Uh The Fish That Save Pittsburgh. The Fish That Save Pittsburgh. Nobody probably know that movie is a cult classic, man. You guys got to get up on that. You know, he's from Pittsburgh. Dr. J with the afro. You know what I'm talking about. Yeah. And then you know the conventional ones you know are you planning to write a book anytime soon? I might as well. Everybody else write books about me. Damn. Might as well. White run by myself. I swear I keep telling Phil Phil. You might have to cut me in on a royalty or something. Hey, really? Yeah. Jesus Christ, man. And do you know what it will be called? Have you thought about the title of the book? I might as well just call it Phil. Just call it Phil. you uh you turn 35 next week. You've accomplished a lot obviously. What are you most proud of? What what uh that you've accomplished? It's it's it's it's tough. It's been a um it's been a um long career, you know, in 17 years. It's hard to to pinpoint in my professional career the things that I'm most proud of. Um I think it's fun. No, it's definitely not over. But it's fun to kind of challenge um you know, from a 17-year-old kid and kind of challenge um what's normal or what the system was. You know, that that's that was pretty cool. You uh need less than 7,000 points to break Kareem's all-time scoring record. Is that important to you? No, you know, it's never I've never given that thought. It was never something that um you know, was a goal of mine growing up. It's not a goal now. I I you know, people don't really understand how obsessed I am with winning. It's not I don't care about anything else on the basketball court but winning. Well, that's why I wonder is everyone knows how competitive you are. What how will you handle it when you retire? I mean, you're going to need serious therapy. Do you even have hobbies? Sure. Sure. Sure. No. Coach, you picture me coaching? My god. No. Is that something you'd be interested in coaching? No. No. No. What about owning a team? Um, if if if the Lakers want to sell you the team, you know, if they if they if they if they want to break me off a little something something, I I I you know, I'll definitely jump at that. Do you think the L Lakers will uh make the playoffs this year? No, I I I I I think we'll finish 12th. All right. We have some questions from the audience. The first one comes from, uh, Jerry Trevino. Jerry, where are you, Jerry? Jerry, uh, go ahead and ask your question. Look at how muscular Jerry is. Why? My goodness. When you ask Marine, that's why. No. Um, Mr. 81, my question to you is, of all your nicknames, which one is your favorite and why? It's like Mamba, Veno, Um, I like right now I I like I like Veno right now. You like Veno right now? I like Veno. Vo is a great nickname. Yeah, Black Mama's like, you know, that I I I enjoy that obviously and that's that's the that's the alter ego got turn into when I step on the court. Next question is from Mariela Maron. Mariel, how are you? Good, thank you. Just wanted to start off by saying me and my cousin love you very much and thank you Vanessa for upgrading our seats. Um, my question to you is, what do you think about ESPN stating that the Lakers are going to be in 12th place on the Western Conference this season? Whoa. Well, I mean, you know, ESPN gets stuff wrong all the time. I mean, it's, you know, so, but I I I I think it's interesting. I use it as motivation. I use it as fuel. I'm sure we all do on a team. It's it's it's you know last year they they picked us to be the favorites and they were wrong about that. So maybe they're wrong about the 12. Tracy, you have a question. Hi Kobe. Whenever I think I can't achieve a goal, I think WW KD. What would Kobe do? [Applause] Thank you. So my question is um could you please share your secret? You have the most amazing ability to rise up quickly and bounce back from any emotional or psychological adversity. You just bounce back right away. The rest of us would crumble and simultaneously you stay in the moment all the time. How can I ask really quickly? Why do you Why do you want to know this? Are you having emotional problems? Yes. Yeah. Kobe, help her, please. I think the the the um the the there's no real there's no real trick to it. It's all really just to me it's it's it's u it seems very simple because you know when you you have a situation and you're struggling or you're going through something and then you step on a basketball court or you're you're faced with that you know fight or flight option you you have a choice to make and to me it's it's a very easy choice. I'm not I'm not going to fold. I'm not going to you know crawl up in the ball. I'm not I'm just not going to do that. So, you know, you you you can either let this situation continue to affect you or you can win at something. So, if you're struggling in this area, you don't want to struggle in this area too, you know. So, you want to, you know, try to compartmentalize your emotions and focus on what you're doing at that moment in time. And u you'll find that when you do that, it it it it brings peace to other aspects of your life as well. [Music] [Applause] We have uh agreed. We have um Hussein. Hussein, is that your name? Yeah. It's not Saddam Hussein. Why is Hussein getting booed? Yeah, I think he has his arms crossed. I think he has a Dwight Howard jersey. Hussein, why are you getting booed? Oh. He did exit out. He got he got he got that on sale. Yeah, that's a that should be a refund item at the Lakers store. That was 90% off. What is a What is your question? What's up, Kobe? What's up, Jimmy? I was just wondering who's the next Kobe Bryant. Who's the next Kobe Bryant? Um, is there a is there a young player you have your eye on? The Well, there's several. I mean, the the problem is that you know, we the guys that I'm I'm facing now all grew up watching me, so they all have the same attitude and temperament and you know, so it's uh but the guys that I really enjoy uh I really enjoy Westbrook. I really enjoy James Harden and uh and Kyrie Irving. Kyrie Irving, man, this guy you know, but they all they all have that that gene, you know, they're all extremely ultra competitive and stubborn and um Nick Young also I Nick Young's actually giving me some pretty big numbers in the past. It's like every time I was guarding this guy, guy would miss. Have you ever wound up playing against somebody that at one time was a kid in one of your camps? No. Well, I played against Westbrook when he was a senior in high school. Oh, okay. And I remember thinking this this kid, I mean, he wasn't scared at all. I mean, he was like getting after it, you know, the same wrestler that you see now. I mean, he was the same way back then. And, um, you can see the, you know, see the potential. Uh, we have a question here from this gentleman. His name is Mark. Hey, Kobe. What's up? Thanks for doing this, man. I'm asking this question for my son Richie who's sick at home. Couldn't make it tonight. If you had to win one game to save your life and you could pick any five players all time, whoever be on that team. Could include you, couldn't include anybody. Who would you pick? Oh. Um, well, it seems like you should be on the team. He really has no role in this. No, I take I'll take I'll take myself out of it. I I I'd pick uh Magic, Michael, um Bird, Russell, and Kareem. Wow. So, we have uh another question from uh the audience. Yes. Um Yes. What is What is your name, young man? My name's Terrell. Terrell. Yes. You have a question for Mr. Brian Kobe? I I have two I have two questions. Obviously with the injury that you've sustained, undoubtedly one of the most difficult to come back from. Can you share with the audience and the million peoples that are watching today how cutting edge technology and science has played a big part in your recovery? Obviously, you're well ahead of of of what you're doing right now. So, can you just share with the the audience what that has done for you and what you're going through right now? I think Terl's looking for a doctor's appointment. Well, you know, we we we have we actually there is a a neuromuscular therapist um that we share. This guy is like one of those um genius kind of guys, man, that just knows the human anatomy inside and out. His name is Baron Bados. And um I I've been working with him for years. And um but yeah, I mean the the procedure was I was very fortunate. We went and did the surgery the next day instead of waiting and letting the scar tissue develop and um we're very aggressive with the therapy. Um you know um 3 weeks maybe after the surgery we got right to it. So um that mean that's that's helped a lot. And and Jimmy just to let you know with this type of technology and research especially obviously you think about stem cell research uh regenine uh cryotherapy these are a lot of things that a lot of people don't know these are not peeds by the way these are not performance-enhancing drugs um these are things that actually to allow guys to get back to their perfected craft on the field on the court in a faster manner than just regular ice and stem that you know traditionally you know practice throughout a lot of the colleges uh high schools and things of that nature. So like you said we share a mutual friend in Baron Beethos and so this is some of the things like I came back from an ACL injury obviously getting back on the field running in like six and a half seven months. These are some of the things that now a lot of athletes are flying across the country to to get those treatments. But see, you know what though? That's But that's But that's interesting because the grand jury to I don't No, you know, it's it's it's interesting because because he he's touching on something that it might not be a, you know, a sexy topic for everybody here to listen to. That's a critical part because you guys want to win a six championship. You got to understand that the recovery things that I do, this stuff, I mean, it's cutting edge. I mean, it's it's you have to be obsessive about the process, you know? You have to be at it all the time. I mean, he he came back from a hell of a ankle injury for my dear and beloved Eagles in the Super Bowl and gave it a great effort. And you know, but it's it's it's it's the the the recovery component is something that it's it's beyond important for for us athletes. For me in particular, yeah, thank you. We only have I have I have another question, J. Well, we only have we only have 40 seconds left. Okay. My next question is, how is Vanessa and the kids? Oh, they're good. Good. V right there. V's here chilling and uh our kids are good and uh you know they're playing sports and insanely insanely competitive and uh but we're we're doing Kobe. I'm sure they're keeping Thank you for doing this. I I think we I I enjoyed talking to you. I hope you guys enjoyed it. I hope that um Kobe and Vanessa Bryant Family Foundation uh is a great charity and thank you all for contributing to it and thanks to all the sponsors and thank you Kobe Bryant to everybody. We'll [Applause] wait. Thank you. [Music] Hey, [Music] hey, hey. [Music] Heat. [Music]
